Grand Master


Council of Balance
The Council of Balance was the ruling body of the Gray Jedi. It was comprised of seven members, rather than the Jedi Council's twelve. The reason for this was because of The Founding Seven.

The Gray Jedi Order


"Balance of The Force is necessary for the universe to thrive. Without balance, everything falls apart…we are charged with maintaining this balance, which is how we realize the truth: all parts are needed to create a whole…
—Dade Leviathan
The Gray Jedi Order was a branch of the Jedi that broke off from the Order in 132 BBY. It originated as a splinter group from the exiled Potentium. The lead proponents of the Gray and Potentium philosophies, Leor Hal and Leor Danal respectively, shared more than the surprising similarities of their names. The two often debated with each other and various Jedi Councils over the nature and history of the Force. These disagreements culminated in the expulsion of Hal's followers and Denal's resignation in protest. Denal and his followers went on to establish a separate Order based on the marriage of Light and Dark side philosophies.

The Gray Jedi believed in balance, not only in the Force, but in every other aspect of the galaxy as well. However, unlike the Potentium, the Gray Order preferred an active role in shaping the ebb and flow of the Force in the galaxy, keeping watch over galactic affairs without intervening unless they deemed it necessary. They believed that the Force did indeed have distinct Light and Dark sides, inherently good and evil, regardless of the user's intentions. But, without one side, the other could not exist, and to truly be one with the Force, both must be mastered. Like all Jedi, they wielded lightsabers but, unlike them, studied and practiced all aspects of the Force.


force guardian gray jedi master


gray guradian


gray knight
Gray Knight was the first level of knight, and given to a Teidowan who had successfully completed the Gray Jedi Knight Trials. A Gray Knight was the first level of knighthood among the Gray Jedi, essentially an introductory rank before becoming a full Knight. A Gray Knight could not go on missions alone, as they had to be accompanied by another Gray Jedi of the same rank, or higher. After two years of training and missions, a Gray Knight would be able to take the test to elevate from Gray Knight to the full title of knight, which was called Koawan.


Maenowan
Maenowan is a rank in the order of the Gray Jedi. When a Koawan had shown exceptional prowess in their studies and field missions, they were permitted to take the test to become an independent agent of the Order. Solo missions and pursuit of individual interests and studies in specific aspects of the Force were the privileges awarded to maenowan. Only those who attained this rank could be accepted by and begin training with any of the four sects of study within the Order: the Fire Warriors, Water Warriors, Wind Sages, or Ice Sages. Not all Maenowan also held the rank of Silver Knight and were permitted to train Teidowan. That responsibility was only awarded to those who desired and deserved it. While uncommon, it was not unheard of for a Gray Jedi to forgo Silver knighthood and simply pursue their personal interests and those of the Order abroad without ever becoming teachers.


Koawan
Koawan was a full Knight of the Gray Jedi Order, able to accept individual missions. Attaining recognition as a Koawan was the first significant step on the path to becoming a Gray Jedi Master. In order to become a Koawan, one had to show mastery of their skills, and good technique at teaching skills.


Teidowan
The rank of an initiate member of the Gray Jedi. Paired with a koawan or maenowan teacher, a new teidowan held similar status as a padawan among the Jedi. After training, a teidowan was permitted to attempt the Gray Jedi Knight Trials to attain the secondary rank of Gray Knight. A Gray Knight is still considered teidowan and could not take an apprentice.


Force Guardian
The Force Guardians became the first true sages of the Gray Jedi, contemplating on the Force almost all of their time. For all questions regarding the Force, the rest of the Gray Jedi increasingly relied on the Force Guardians. In 50 BBY, the Force Guardians became an official sect of the Gray Jedi.